[IMP] admin sys config: onprem password reset (#8990)
odoo/documentation: content/administration/on_premise/deploy.rst

secure master password for any Odoo on-premise deployment.

.. warning::
   When creating an Odoo on-premise database the installation is accessible to anyone on the
   internet, until this password is set to secure the database.

The master password is specified in the Odoo configuration file (`odoo.conf` or `odoorc` (hidden
file)). The Odoo master password is needed to modify, create, or delete a database through the
graphical user interface (GUI).

Locate configuration file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, open the Odoo configuration file (`odoo.conf` or `odoorc` (hidden file)).

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Windows

      The configuration file is located at: `c:\\ProgramFiles\\Odoo{VERSION}\\server\\odoo.conf`

   .. tab:: Linux

      Depending on how Odoo is installed on the Linux machine, the configuration file is located in
      one of two different places:

      - Package installation: `/etc/odoo.conf`
      - Source installation: `~/.odoorc`

Change old password
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once the appropriate file has been opened, proceed to modify the old password in the configuration
file to a temporary password.

.. tabs::

>    .. tab:: Graphical user interface

Reviewer: This may be a good opportunity to use [Group Tabs](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/15.0/contributing/documentation/rst_cheat_sheet.html#group-tabs), so that if a user selects the CLI tab, it is shown in both locations :)

         `admin_passwd =
         $pbkdf2-sh39dji295.59mptrfW.9z6HkA$w9j9AMVmKAP17OosCqDxDv2hjsvzlLpF8Rra8I7p/b573hji540mk/.3ek0lg%kvkol6k983mkf/40fjki79m`

         The modified line appears like this: `admin_passwd = newpassword1234`

.. important::
   It is essential that the password is changed to something else, rather than triggering a new
   password reset by adding a semicolon `;` at the beginning of the line. This ensures the database
   is secure throughout the entire password reset process.

Restart Odoo server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After setting the temporary password, a restart of the Odoo server is **required**.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Graphical user interface

      To restart the Odoo server, first, type `services` into the Windows :guilabel:`Search` bar.
      Then, select the :guilabel:`Services` application, and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Odoo`
      service.

      Next, right click on :guilabel:`Odoo`, and select :guilabel:`Start` or :guilabel:`Restart`.
      This action manually restarts the Odoo server.

   .. tab:: Command-line interface

      Restart the Odoo server by typing the command: :command:`sudo service odoo15 restart`

      .. note::

>          Change the number after Odoo to fit the specific version the server is running on.

Reviewer: Small formatting change, since this is user input and "Odoo" is lowercase in the command :)
```suggestion
         Change the number after `odoo` to fit the specific version the server is running on.
```

Reset the master password
-------------------------

There may be instances where the master password is misplaced or compromised and needs to be reset.
The following process is for system administrators of an Odoo on-premise database to manually reset
and re-encrypt the master password.

.. seealso::
   For more information about changing an Odoo.com account password see this documentation:
   :ref:`odoocom/change_password`.

When creating a new on-premise database, a random master password is generated. Odoo recommends
using this password to secure the database. Odoo implements this password by default so that there
is a secure master password for any Odoo on-premise deployment.

.. note::
   When creating an Odoo on-premise database the installation is accessible to anyone on the
   internet until this password is set to secure the database.

Password rest
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The master password is specified in the Odoo configuration file (`odoo.conf` or `odoorc` (hidden
file)). The Odoo master password is needed to modify, create, or delete a database through the
graphical user interface (GUI). This can be accessed by navigating to

> `http://server_ip:port/web/database/manager` in a browser.

Reviewer 2: this part is not linked to password reset

> which will generate a 32 characters pseudorandom printable string.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
which generates a 32-character pseudorandom printable string.
```

Reset the master password
-------------------------

> There may be instances where the master password is misplaced or compromised and needs to be reset.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There may be instances where the master password is misplaced, or compromised, and needs to be reset.
```

> The following process is for system administrators of an Odoo on-premise database to manually reset

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following process is for system administrators of an Odoo on-premise database detailing how to manually reset
```

and re-encrypt the master password.

.. seealso::
   For more information about changing an Odoo.com account password, see this documentation:
   :ref:`odoocom/change_password`.

When creating a new on-premise database, a random master password is generated. Odoo recommends

> using this password to secure the database. This password is implemented by default so there is a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
using this password to secure the database. This password is implemented by default, so there is a
```

secure master password for any Odoo on-premise deployment.

.. warning::
   When creating an Odoo on-premise database the installation is accessible to anyone on the

>    internet until this password is set to secure the database.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   internet, until this password is set to secure the database.
```

The master password is specified in the Odoo configuration file (`odoo.conf` or `odoorc` (hidden
file)). The Odoo master password is needed to modify, create, or delete a database through the
graphical user interface (GUI).

Locate configuration file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> First, :guilabel:`Open` the Odoo configuration file (`odoo.conf` or `odoorc` (hidden file)).

Reviewer 3: unless there is a button/link titled, "Open" at this point (and present on the interface) I don't think a GUI label is necessary in this instance.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Windows

      The configuration file is located at: `c:\\ProgramFiles\\Odoo{VERSION}\\server\\odoo.conf`

   .. tab:: Linux

      Depending on how Odoo is installed on the Linux machine, the configuration file is located in
      one of two different places:

      - Package installation: `/etc/odoo.conf`
      - Source installation: `~/.odoorc`

Change old password
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Then, modify the old password in the configuration file to a temporary password.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the appropriate file has been opened, proceed to modify the old password in the configuration file to a temporary password.
```

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Graphical user interface

      After locating the configuration file, open it using a (:abbr:`GUI (graphical user

>       interface)`). This can be achieved by simply double clicking on the file and the device should

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      interface)`). This can be achieved by simply double-clicking on the file. Then, the device should
```

      have a default :abbr:`GUI (graphical user interface)` to open the file with.

>       Next, modify the line to the master password `admin_passwd = $pbkdf2-sha…` to `admin_passwd =

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      Next, modify the master password line `admin_passwd = $pbkdf2-sha…` to `admin_passwd =
```

>       newpassword1234`. This password can be anything as long as it is saved temporarily. Modify all

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      newpassword1234`, for example. This password can be anything, as long as it is saved temporarily. Make sure to modify all
```

      characters after the `=`.

      .. example::
         The line appears like this:
         `admin_passwd =
         $pbkdf2-sh39dji295.59mptrfW.9z6HkA$w9j9AMVmKAP17OosCqDxDv2hjsvzlLpF8Rra8I7p/b573hji540mk/.3ek0lg%kvkol6k983mkf/40fjki79m`

         The modified line appears like this: `admin_passwd = newpassword1234`

   .. tab:: Command-line interface

>       Modify the line to the master password using the following Unix command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      Modify the master password line using the following Unix command detailed below.
```

>       Connect to the Odoo server's terminal via Secure Shell (SSH) protocol and edit the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      Connect to the Odoo server's terminal, via Secure Shell (SSH) protocol, and edit the
```

      configuration file. To modify the configuration file, enter the following command:

>       :command:`sudo nano /etc/odoo.conf`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      :command:`sudo nano /etc/odoo.conf`
```
is that space between "nano" and the first "/" intended? It seems like this has be to entered precisely in order to work properly. Just tossing it out there as a "double-check" suggestion.

>       After opening the configuration file, modify the line to the master password `admin_passwd =

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      After opening the configuration file, modify the master password line `admin_passwd =
```

>       $pbkdf2-sha…` to `admin_passwd = newpassword1234`. This password can be anything as long as it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      $pbkdf2-sha…` to `admin_passwd = newpassword1234`. This password can be anything, as long as it
```

>       is saved temporarily. Modify all characters after the `=`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      is saved temporarily. Make sure to modify all characters after the `=`.
```

      .. example::
         The line appears like this:
         `admin_passwd =
         $pbkdf2-sh39dji295.59mptrfW.9z6HkA$w9j9AMVmKAP17OosCqDxDv2hjsvzlLpF8Rra8I7p/b573hji540mk/.3ek0lg%kvkol6k983mkf/40fjki79m`

         The modified line appears like this: `admin_passwd = newpassword1234`

.. important::

>    It is essential that the password is changed to something else rather than triggering a new

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   It is essential that the password is changed to something else, rather than triggering a new
```

   password reset by adding a semicolon `;` at the beginning of the line. This ensures the database
   is secure throughout the entire password reset process.

Restart Odoo server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Following setting the temporary password, a restart of the Odoo server is necessary.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After setting the temporary password, a restart of the Odoo server is **required**.
```

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Graphical user interface

>       To restart the Odoo server, first, type `services` into the Windows :guilabel:`Search Bar`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      To restart the Odoo server, first, type `services` into the Windows :guilabel:`Search` bar.
```

>       Then, select the :guilabel:`Services` application and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Odoo`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      Then, select the :guilabel:`Services` application, and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Odoo`
```

      service.

>       Next, right click on :guilabel:`Odoo` and select :guilabel:`Start` or :guilabel:`Restart`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      Next, right click on :guilabel:`Odoo`, and select :guilabel:`Start`, or :guilabel:`Restart`.
```

      This action manually restarts the Odoo server.

   .. tab:: Command-line interface

>       Then restart the Odoo server by typing the command: :command:`sudo service odoo15 restart`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      Restart the Odoo server by typing the command: :command:`sudo service odoo15 restart`
```

      .. note::
         Change the number after Odoo to fit the specific version the server is running on.

Use web interface to re-encrypt password
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, navigate to `/web/database/manager` or `http://server_ip:port/web/database/manager` in a
browser.

.. note::
   Replace `server_ip` with the IP address of the database. Replace `port` with the numbered port
   the database is accessible from.

> Next, click :guilabel:`Set Master Password` and type in the previously selected temporary password
> into the :guilabel:`Master Password` field. Following this step, type in a :guilabel:`New Master
> Password`. The :guilabel:`New Master Password` will be hashed or encrypted once the
> :guilabel:`Continue` button is clicked.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, click :guilabel:`Set Master Password`, and type in the previously-selected temporary password
into the :guilabel:`Master Password` field. Following this step, type in a :guilabel:`New Master
Password`. The :guilabel:`New Master Password` will be hashed (or encrypted), once the
:guilabel:`Continue` button is clicked.
```

> The password has been successfully reset, and a hashed version of the new password now appears in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At this point, the password has been successfully reset, and a hashed version of the new password now appears in
```

which will generate a 32 characters pseudorandom printable string.

Reset the master password
-------------------------

There may be instances where the master password is misplaced or compromised and needs to be reset.
The following process is for system administrators of an Odoo on-premise database to manually reset
and re-encrypt the master password.

.. seealso::

>    For more information about changing an Odoo.com account password see this documentation:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   For more information about changing an Odoo.com account password, see this documentation:
```

   :ref:`odoocom/change_password`.

When creating a new on-premise database, a random master password is generated. Odoo recommends

> using this password to secure the database. Odoo implements this password by default so that there

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
using this password to secure the database. This password is implemented by default so there
```

is a secure master password for any Odoo on-premise deployment.

> .. note::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. important::
```
I'd argue this is worthy of an important admonition :-)

   When creating an Odoo on-premise database the installation is accessible to anyone on the
   internet until this password is set to secure the database.

The master password is specified in the Odoo configuration file (`odoo.conf` or `odoorc` (hidden
file)). The Odoo master password is needed to modify, create, or delete a database through the
graphical user interface (GUI).

Locate configuration file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, :guilabel:`Open` the Odoo configuration file (`odoo.conf` or `odoorc` (hidden file)).

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Windows

      The configuration file is located at: `c:\\ProgramFiles\\Odoo{VERSION}\\server\\odoo.conf`

   .. tab:: Linux

>       Depending on how Odoo is installed on the Linux machine the configuration file is located in
>       different places:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      Depending on how Odoo is installed on the Linux machine, the configuration file is located in one of two
      different places:
```

      - Package installation: `/etc/odoo.conf`
      - Source installation: `~/.odoorc`

Change old password
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Then, modify the old password in the configuration file to a temporary password.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Graphical user interface

>       After locating the configuration file open it using a graphical user interface (GUI). This can

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      After locating the configuration file, open it using a graphical user interface (GUI). This can
```
Since we've established what GUI means before this, an :abbr: tag could work here instead. Optional obviously depending on what you want

      be achieved by simply double clicking on the file and the device should have a default
      :abbr:`GUI (graphical user interface)` to open the file with.

      Next, modify the line to the master password `admin_passwd = $pbkdf2-sha…` to `admin_passwd =

>       newpassword1234`. This password can be anything just as long as it is saved temporarily.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      newpassword1234`. This password can be anything as long as it is saved temporarily.
```

      Modify all characters after the `=`.

      .. example::
         The line appears like this:
         `admin_passwd =
         $pbkdf2-sh39dji295.59mptrfW.9z6HkA$w9j9AMVmKAP17OosCqDxDv2hjsvzlLpF8Rra8I7p/b573hji540mk/.3ek0lg%kvkol6k983mkf/40fjki79m`

      To reset the master password delete everything after the `=`

      .. example::

>          The line appears like this: `admin_passwd = newpassword1234`

Reviewer 2: the example does not match the sentence above, you can just say to delete the full line

   .. tab:: Command-line interface

>       Using the following Unix command modify the line to the master password.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      Modify the line to the master password using the following Unix command.
```

      Connect to the Odoo server's terminal via Secure Shell (SSH) protocol and edit the

>       configuration file. To modify the configuration file type: :command:`sudo nano /etc/odoo.conf`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      configuration file. To modify the configuration file type, enter the following command: :command:`sudo nano /etc/odoo.conf`
```
For clarity - up to you how to word it though

      After opening the configuration file, modify the line to the master password `admin_passwd =

>       $pbkdf2-sha…` to `admin_passwd = newpassword1234`. This password can be anything just as long

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      $pbkdf2-sha…` to `admin_passwd = newpassword1234`. This password can be anything as long
```

      as it is saved temporarily. Modify all characters after the `=`.

      .. example::
         The line appears like this:
         `admin_passwd =
         $pbkdf2-sh39dji295.59mptrfW.9z6HkA$w9j9AMVmKAP17OosCqDxDv2hjsvzlLpF8Rra8I7p/b573hji540mk/.3ek0lg%kvkol6k983mkf/40fjki79m`

      To reset the master password delete everything after the `=`

      .. example::
         The line appears like this: `admin_passwd = newpassword1234`

.. important::
   It is essential that the password is changed to something else rather than triggering a new

>    password reset.

Reviewer 4: I'm having trouble understanding what this sentence means - consider rewording a bit to make it clear (unless I'm totally missing the point)

Restart Odoo server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Following setting the temporary password, a restart of the Odoo server is necessary.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Graphical user interface

>       To restart the ODoo server, first, type `services` into the Windows :guilabel:`Search Bar`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      To restart the Odoo server, first, type `services` into the Windows :guilabel:`Search Bar`.
```

      Then, select the :guilabel:`Services` application and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Odoo`
      service.

      Next, right click on :guilabel:`Odoo` and select :guilabel:`Start` or :guilabel:`Restart`.

>       This action will manually restart the Odoo server.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      This action manually restarts the Odoo server.
```

   .. tab:: Command-line interface

      Then restart the Odoo server by typing the command: :command:`sudo service odoo15 restart`

      .. note::
         Change the number after Odoo to fit the specific version the server is running on.

Use web interface to re-encrypt password
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, navigate to `/web/database/manager` or `http://server_ip:port/web/database/manager` in a
browser.

.. note::
   Replace `server_ip` with the IP address of the database. Replace `port` with the numbered port
   the database is accessible from.

Next, click :guilabel:`Set Master Password` and type in the previously selected temporary password
into the :guilabel:`Master Password` field. Following this step, type in a :guilabel:`New Master
Password`. The :guilabel:`New Master Password` will be hashed or encrypted once the
:guilabel:`Continue` button is clicked.

The password has been successfully reset, and a hashed version of the new password now appears in
the configuration file.

.. seealso::

>    For more information on Odoo database security see: :ref:`db_manager_security`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   For more information on Odoo database security, see: :ref:`db_manager_security`.
```
